README.md, before:

Python connector between One.Stop.Transport and FI-WARE Orion Context Broker


## FI-WARE Lisbon use case

Integration project between [One.Stop.Transport](https://ost.pt) and [FI-WARE](http://fi-ware.org). This application fetches GTFS data from One.Stop.Transport's [APIs](https://developer.ost.pt/api-explorer/) and inserts it into an [Orion Context Broker](http://catalogue.fi-ware.org/enablers/configuration-manager-orion-context-broker) instance.

---

## Setup

This is a Python project that can be run as a [Celery](http://www.celeryproject.org/) worker.

#### Requirements

- **[Python 2.7](https://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7)**
- **[Pip](http://pip.readthedocs.org/en/latest/quickstart.html)**

#### "Should I use a virtual environment?"

**YES**. It's strongly recommended to use a [virtual environment tool](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_environment_software) to control the libraries' versions. We suggest **[pyenv](https://github.com/yyuu/pyenv)** with **[pyenv-virtualenv](https://github.com/yyuu/pyenv-virtualenv)**, but other solutions may suit you.

#### Installation

After setting that up and creating a `virtualenv` for this project, install its libraries:

```
pip install -r requirements.pip
```

...and that's it.

---

## Usage

As stated before, this project fetches data from OST and inserts it into a Context Broker instance. For it to work, we need a Context Broker running on FI-WARE and a suitable API Key to be used with OST. 

#### Requirements

- [OST](https://www.ost.pt) developer account (Sign up > Login > Settings > Developer Settings) ;
- [OST Server API Key](https://github.com/OneStopTransport/OneStopTransport/wiki/Autenticac%CC%A7a%CC%83o-por-chave);
- [Orion Context Broker](http://catalogue.fi-ware.org/enablers/configuration-manager-orion-context-broker) instance running on FI-WARE with a public IP (check the [documentation](http://catalogue.fi-ware.org/enablers/publishsubscribe-context-broker-orion-context-broker/documentation) for details);
- [RabbitMQ](http://www.rabbitmq.com/) instance if you want this being run as a [Celery Beat Worker](http://docs.celeryproject.org/en/latest/userguide/periodic-tasks.html);


#### Environment variables

For security reasons, all the confidential data (such as the API Key or the Context Broker Host) were not added to the project's repository, since they're retrieved from the system's environment. If you'll be running this project on an Unix system, you can the put the following lines on the `~/.exports` file or in one of the following: `~/.bash_profile`, `~/.bashrc` or `~/.profile`:

```
# One.Stop.Transport API Keys 
export OST_SERVER_KEY="<INSERT_API_KEY_HERE>"
export FIWARE_HOST="<INSERT_CONTEXTBROKER_IP_HERE>"
```

`FIWARE_HOST` can be an IP address or an URL, but **don't forget** the `http://` protocol and the `1026` port, or else the ContextBroker operations will not work.

If you'll be running this as a [Celery](http://www.celeryproject.org/) worker, you'll need this too:
```
# RabbitMQ credentials and URLs
export MQ_HOST_PROD="messaging.vhost.ost.pt"		# Only if you're running this on the OST architecture
export MQ_HOST_TEST="<INSERT_RABBITMQ_HOST_HERE>"
export MQ_USER="<INSERT_MQ_USER_HERE>"
export MQ_PASSWORD="<INSERT_MQ_PASSWORD_HERE>"
export MQ_VHOST="/"
```

#### Running the project

There are two procedures, one if you'll use this as a regular Python project or as a periodic [Celery Beat worker](http://docs.celeryproject.org/en/latest/userguide/periodic-tasks.html).

#### - Regular Python project

Just run the following on the project's directory (fi-ware-lisbon):

```
python -m fiware.tasks
```

#### - Celery Beat 

Just run the following on the project's directory (fi-ware-lisbon):

```
celeryd -B -Q fiware_queue
```

And it will transfer the data at 6:30 AM every day!

---

## Issues

Having issues or questions? Just leave an [issue on this repository](https://github.com/OneStopTransport/Orion-Context-Broker-Exporter/issues) and we'll see what we can do to help you out!

Commit message:

Updates README with more details

README.md, after:

Python connectors between One.Stop.Transport and FI-WARE (Orion Context Broker and CKAN).


## FI-WARE Lisbon use case

This is an Integration project between [One.Stop.Transport](https://ost.pt) and [FI-WARE](http://fi-ware.org), composed by two applications: `fiware` and `ckan`. 

![Project structure representation](structure.png)

These applications fetch GTFS data from One.Stop.Transport's [APIs](https://developer.ost.pt/api-explorer/) and one of them (`fiware`) inserts it into an [Orion Context Broker](http://catalogue.fi-ware.org/enablers/configuration-manager-orion-context-broker) instance while the other (`ckan`) imports it into a CKAN instance, more precisely to its [DataStore extension](http://docs.ckan.org/en/latest/maintaining/datastore.html).

---

## Setup

This is a Python project that can be run as [Celery](http://www.celeryproject.org/) workers.

#### Requirements

- **[Python 2.7](https://www.python.org/download/releases/2.7)**
- **[Pip](http://pip.readthedocs.org/en/latest/quickstart.html)**
- **[cURL](http://curl.haxx.se/download.html)**

#### "Should I use a virtual environment?"

**YES**. It's strongly recommended to use a [virtual environment tool](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_environment_software) to control the libraries' versions. We suggest **[pyenv](https://github.com/yyuu/pyenv)** with **[pyenv-virtualenv](https://github.com/yyuu/pyenv-virtualenv)**, but other solutions may suit you.

#### Installation

After setting that up and creating a `virtualenv` for this project, install its libraries:

```
pip install -r requirements.pip
```

...and that's it.

---

## Usage

As stated before, this project fetches data from OST and inserts it into a CKAN or Context Broker instance. In order for it to work, we need a CKAN instance or a Context Broker instance running on FI-WARE and a suitable API Key to be used with OST. 

#### Requirements

- [OST](https://www.ost.pt) developer account (Sign up > Login > Settings > Developer Settings) ;
- [OST Server API Key](https://github.com/OneStopTransport/OneStopTransport/wiki/Autenticac%CC%A7a%CC%83o-por-chave);
- [Orion Context Broker](http://catalogue.fi-ware.org/enablers/configuration-manager-orion-context-broker) instance running on FI-WARE with a public IP (check the [documentation](http://catalogue.fi-ware.org/enablers/publishsubscribe-context-broker-orion-context-broker/documentation) for details);
- [CKAN](http://ckan.org/) instance with [DataStore](http://docs.ckan.org/en/latest/maintaining/datastore.html) extension. You can easily install a [Vagrant machine with it](https://github.com/rjfv/ckan-vagrant);
- [CKAN API Key](http://docs.ckan.org/en/latest/api/index.html#authentication-and-api-keys)  which you can retrieve from your profile, after creating an account on the CKAN instance;
- [RabbitMQ](http://www.rabbitmq.com/) instance if you want this being run as a [Celery Beat Worker](http://docs.celeryproject.org/en/latest/userguide/periodic-tasks.html).


#### Environment variables

For security reasons, all the confidential data (such as the API Keys or the Context Broker Host) were not added to the project's repository, since they're retrieved from the system's environment. If you'll be running this project in an Unix system, you can put the following lines on the `~/.exports` file or in one of the following: `~/.bash_profile`, `~/.bashrc` or `~/.profile`:

```
# One.Stop.Transport API Keys 
export OST_SERVER_KEY="<INSERT_OST_API_KEY_HERE>"
export FIWARE_HOST="<INSERT_CONTEXTBROKER_IP_HERE>"
export CKAN_API_KEY="<INSERT_CKAN_API_KEY_HERE>"
export CKAN_HOST="<INSERT_CKAN_HOST_HERE>"
```

`FIWARE_HOST` can be an IP address or an URL, but **don't forget** the `http://` protocol and the `1026` port, or else the ContextBroker operations will not work.

If you'll be running this as a [Celery](http://www.celeryproject.org/) worker, you'll need this too:
```
# RabbitMQ credentials and URLs
export MQ_HOST_PROD="messaging.vhost.ost.pt"		# Only if you're running this on the OST architecture
export MQ_HOST_TEST="<INSERT_RABBITMQ_HOST_HERE>"
export MQ_USER="<INSERT_MQ_USER_HERE>"
export MQ_PASSWORD="<INSERT_MQ_PASSWORD_HERE>"
export MQ_VHOST="/"
```

#### Running the project

There are two procedures, one if you'll use this as a regular Python project or as a periodic [Celery Beat worker](http://docs.celeryproject.org/en/latest/userguide/periodic-tasks.html).

#### - Regular Python project

Just run the following on the project's directory (fi-ware-lisbon):

```
python -m fiware.tasks	# to import GTFS data to ContextBroker
python -m ckan.tasks	    # to import GTFS data to CKAN
```

#### - Celery Beat 

Just run the following on the project's directory (fi-ware-lisbon):

```
celery worker -B -Q fiware_queue
```

And it will transfer the data at 6:00 AM to the Context Broker and at 6:30 AM to the CKAN DataStore, every day!

---

## Issues

Having issues or questions? Just leave an [issue on this repository](https://github.com/OneStopTransport/Orion-Context-Broker-Exporter/issues) and we'll see what we can do to help you out!
